hey guys Jason well it's that time of
year again to inspect the vogelzang
barrel stove and this year I'm going to
replace it I got the heat exchange get
the double barrel kits off I'm going to
retire this barrel I'm going to build
one
similar to what Bobby's got over to MHP
gardener what he does in his greenhouse
same kit just just enhanced plus the
barrels so twice the surface twice the
surface area for heating just it's just
much more efficient that way and I'll
get a video up on the on that as soon as
I get it built but every year I take
this thing apart any Wes the second year
second season and I burned burned
through it and and it's it's been
fabulous heats my workshop great and if
I get a ceiling in there with this
double-barreled kit should be it should
be like the Bahamas in there this winter
so but anyway two years of use out of
this barrel and and it wouldn't I
wouldn't be afraid not one little bit to
use this thing another couple of three
years because they're just virtually no
damage to the inside of it of course I
did take and paint it with the heat
paint the 1200 degree heat resistant
paint but but really I mean there's just
there's no rust no damage I mean you
know it had to get wet for it to have
rust in it but I think one of the
biggest things about this is the fire
brick and sand that you put in the
bottom I think if you had that fire
sitting directly on the bottom of the
drum the results might be completely
different but but it's
he's got a layer right here I I stacked
the heat bricks up all the way around
this whole area right here would be the
bottom of the stove that's the holes for
the for the feet right there but uh I
think the results would be much
different if you didn't put fire brick
and and sand in it in the bottom of it
but but the top for the flames I mean
that that area right there just gets so
hot it's I mean you touch a glove today
it's stuck in just a blank I mean you
you put your finger on that in your
heart on this things going so uh there's
just no damage to it at all it wouldn't
bother me a bit to use this thing for
this same battle for a couple more years
and that's actually what I've got on my
mind to do with this barrel I'm not
going to throw this barrel away or or
discard it or use it for anything else
I'm actually going to look for a another
kit on sale you know and and put the kit
together on this barrel and then put
down inside the barrel sections of
stovepipe and just park this thing in my
barn and and if things ever do get crazy
or bad I'll I'll have a second barrel
stove get ready to go for a family
member
Barger I mean just just anything so but
anyway that's it if you've ever had any
doubts about these barrel kits like say
two years of pot fires we have
relatively mild winters here in Alabama
so it's not but about three months out
of the year that I really really burned
this thing on a daily basis but but it
gets used a lot there in the winter I
mean I keep my workshop hot all the time
all weekend long I have three-day
weekends with my job three days as
things going non-stop every week and
generally generally I'll start a fire in
it at night when I get home from work
and and hang out in the shop till till
bedtime I'll let it get cold some
mornings I mean some of the evenings
when I get home from work even there's
enough hot coals that I can just load it
back with to load it back up with
firewood and it'll it'll pick right back
up so it gets used a lot even though
it's in Alabama so there's ever any
doubt in your mind I say they're good
they're safe I've never had any problems
with nash's coming out of them hot ashes
so anyway guys be getting the video up
here in the next week or two about the
building of the new kits or new stove so
y'all have a great weekend see ya I
don't talk to you for Thanksgiving
Happy Thanksgiving